README.adoc, before:

= Connect Simple ToDo App

image:https://api.travis-ci.com/ClearPointNZ/connect-simple-todo-java.svg?branch=master[caption="Travis Build Status"]

== Description
This is a simple todo microservice written in Java. The core of the application is extremely simple, but the
intention is to show the use of an app that

- exposes open tracing,
- links tracing to logs,
- exposes metrics for prometheus
- uses a feature toggle service
- has a feature in progress and it is testable by the FT service

It also shows how
- a proper Maven reactor build should work in CD environment,
- separation of dependencies for ease of consistency across your project
- Maven being able to provide reliable node 

This example application is using Java 11. 

=== Contributors

- Irina Southwell - Principal Engineer, ClearPoint NZ
- Richard Vowles - Software Developer, ClearPoint NZ / Blue Train Software Ltd 

== Installation Instructions

This project requires you to have Java 11 as your primary Java and Maven 3.5 or later installed.

- Java 11 should be downloaded from https://adoptopenjdk.net/ (do not download it from Oracle)


==== Java 11 on Mac OS X

This downloads as a gziped tar file, so extract the folder, and move it to `/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines` but ensure
you tack a `.jdk` on the end, so `jdk-11.0.2+9` becomes  `/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/jdk-11.0.2+9.jdk`. 
Then set the environment variable JAVA_HOME to that folder + /Contents/Home, i.e.

----
export JAVA_HOME=/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/jdk-11.0.2+9.jdk/Contents/Home
----

This will cause the installed 'java' to swap to that version. Type `java -version` to confirm it has changed.

== Building from the command line

Just type `mvn clean install` and it should build everything, including the Docker ready
tar file (see below).  

== Application Structure

- todo-api contains the swagger.yaml file and that is all.
- todo-backend contains the Jersey + Netty implementation. No extra dependency framework is used as HK2 which comes
with Jersey is good enough for our purposes. 
- composite-* - these contain pom.xml files that consist solely of dependencies. This isolates dependencies around
particular problems and makes them easy to depend on and upgrade across the board.
- todo-feature-service - TODO - will contain the feature service for the TODO app
- todo-tests-api - test the server via the API, these are CD style e2e tests
- todo-tests-ui - test the running app via the API, these are CD style e2e tests
- todo-frontend - this is a React frontend for the app. 

== Running inside the IDE

As various libraries require unfettered access to the JVM, you need to ensure your JVM
flags are:

`--add-exports java.base/jdk.internal.misc=ALL-UNNAMED -Dio.netty.tryReflectionSetAccessible=true --add-opens java.base/java.nio=ALL-UNNAMED`

This is included in the Docker image build. 

== For completeness

- use maven to build and deploy the app into local k8s (single node cluster in Docker)
- use toolbox to build using jenkins

== Building

Build the reactor, it will build the todo-backend and generate a Docker image that can
be loaded into Docker with 

`docker load --input target/jib-image.tar`

run with: `docker run -p 127.0.0.1:8099:8099/tcp cdconnect/todo-backend:latest`

It uses Google's JIB for building the docker image so you can build it even if you don't
have docker installed. You cannot run it this way however.

Commit message:

Upgrade deps, simplify app (#2)
There have been two libraries that have changed which have added
extra capability which we are upgrading to here. This also allows us
to remove the prometheus resource (which is now in the library,
along with health and so forth).

The move to Grizzly is because of a Netty/Jersey bug that is
causing large payloads (such as the metrics) to fail.

README.adoc, after:

= Connect Simple ToDo App

image:https://api.travis-ci.com/ClearPointNZ/connect-simple-todo-java.svg?branch=master[caption="Travis Build Status"]

== Description
This is a simple todo microservice written in Java. The core of the application is extremely simple, but the
intention is to show the use of an app that

- exposes open tracing,
- links tracing to logs,
- exposes metrics for prometheus
- uses a feature toggle service
- has a feature in progress and it is testable by the FT service

It also shows how
- a proper Maven reactor build should work in CD environment,
- separation of dependencies for ease of consistency across your project
- Maven being able to provide reliable node 

This example application is using Java 11. 

=== Contributors

- Irina Southwell - Principal Engineer, ClearPoint NZ
- Richard Vowles - Software Developer, ClearPoint NZ / Blue Train Software Ltd 

== Installation Instructions

This project requires you to have Java 11 as your primary Java and Maven 3.5 or later installed.

- Java 11 should be downloaded from https://adoptopenjdk.net/ (do not download it from Oracle)


==== Java 11 on Mac OS X

This downloads as a gziped tar file, so extract the folder, and move it to `/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines` but ensure
you tack a `.jdk` on the end, so `jdk-11.0.2+9` becomes  `/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/jdk-11.0.2+9.jdk`. 
Then set the environment variable JAVA_HOME to that folder + /Contents/Home, i.e.

If you have downloaded it from Oracle, use the following (or similar based on the version you have)
----
export JAVA_HOME=/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/jdk-11.0.2+9.jdk/Contents/Home
----
If you have downloaded it from AdoptOpenJDK, then use this:
----
export JAVA_HOME=/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/jdk-11.jdk/Contents/Home
----


This will cause the installed 'java' to swap to that version. Type `java -version` to confirm it has changed.

== Building from the command line

Just type `mvn clean install` and it should build everything, including the Docker ready
tar file (see below). If you get an error like `--release` not known, you are using Java 8.  

== Application Structure

- todo-api contains the swagger.yaml file and that is all.
- todo-backend contains the Jersey + Netty implementation. No extra dependency framework is used as HK2 which comes
with Jersey is good enough for our purposes. 
- composite-* - these contain pom.xml files that consist solely of dependencies. This isolates dependencies around
particular problems and makes them easy to depend on and upgrade across the board.
- todo-feature-service - TODO - will contain the feature service for the TODO app
- todo-tests-api - test the server via the API, these are CD style e2e tests
- todo-tests-ui - test the running app via the API, these are CD style e2e tests
- todo-frontend - this is a React frontend for the app. 

== Running inside the IDE

As various libraries require unfettered access to the JVM, you need to ensure your JVM
flags are:

`--add-exports java.base/jdk.internal.misc=ALL-UNNAMED -Dio.netty.tryReflectionSetAccessible=true --add-opens java.base/java.nio=ALL-UNNAMED`

This is included in the Docker image build. 

== For completeness

- use maven to build and deploy the app into local k8s (single node cluster in Docker)
- use toolbox to build using jenkins

== Building

Build the reactor, it will build the todo-backend and generate a Docker image that can
be loaded into Docker with 

`docker load --input target/jib-image.tar`

run with: `docker run -p 127.0.0.1:8099:8099/tcp cdconnect/todo-backend:latest`

It uses Google's JIB for building the docker image so you can build it even if you don't
have docker installed. You cannot run it this way however.
